docs/source/coiled.md, before:

# coiled

```{caution}
Currently, the coiled backend can only be used if your workflow code is organized in a
package due to how pytask imports your code and dask serializes task functions
([issue](https://github.com/dask/distributed/issues/8607)).
```

[coiled](https://www.coiled.io/) is a product built on top of dask that eases the
deployment of your workflow to many cloud providers like AWS, GCP, and Azure.

Note that, coiled is a paid service. They offer a
[free monthly tier](https://www.coiled.io/pricing) where you only need to pay the costs
for your cloud provider and you can get started without a credit card.

They provide the following benefits which are especially helpful to people who are not
familiar with cloud providers or remote computing.

- coiled manages your resources by spawning workers if you need them and shutting them
  down if they are idle.
- [Synchronization](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/software/sync.html) of your local
  environment to remote workers.
- [Adaptive scaling](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/adaptive.html) if your workflow
  takes a long time to finish.

There are two ways how you can use coiled with pytask and pytask-parallel.

1. Run individual tasks in the cloud.
1. Run your whole workflow in the cloud.

Both approaches are explained below after the setup.

## Setup

Follow coiled's
[four step short process](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/setup/index.html) to set up
your local environment and configure your cloud provider.

## Running individual tasks

In most projects there are a just couple of tasks that require a lot of resources and
that you would like to run in a virtual machine in the cloud.

With coiled's
[serverless functions](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/usage/functions/index.html),
you can define the hardware and software environment for your task. Just decorate the
task function with a {func}`@coiled.function <coiled.function>` decorator.

```{literalinclude} ../../docs_src/coiled/coiled_functions.py
```

To execute the workflow, you need to turn on parallelization by requesting two or more
workers or specifying one of the parallel backends. Otherwise, the decorated task is run
locally.

```console
pytask -n 2
pytask --parallel-backend loky
```

When you apply the {func}`@task <pytask.task>` decorator to the task, make sure the
{func}`@coiled.function <coiled.function>` decorator is applied first, or is closer to
the function. Otherwise, it will be ignored. Add more arguments to the decorator to
configure the hardware and software environment.

```{literalinclude} ../../docs_src/coiled/coiled_functions_task.py
```

```{seealso}
Serverless functions are more thoroughly explained in
[coiled's guide](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/usage/functions/index.html).
```

(coiled-clusters)=

## Running a cluster

It is also possible to launch a cluster and run each task in a worker provided by
coiled. Usually, it is not necessary and you are better off using coiled's serverless
functions.

If you want to launch a cluster managed by coiled, register a function that builds an
executor using {class}`coiled.Cluster`.

```python
import coiled
from pytask_parallel import ParallelBackend
from pytask_parallel import registry
from concurrent.futures import Executor


def _build_coiled_executor(n_workers: int) -> Executor:
    return coiled.Cluster(n_workers=n_workers).get_client().get_executor()


registry.register_parallel_backend(ParallelBackend.CUSTOM, _build_coiled_executor)
```

Then, execute your workflow with

```console
pytask --parallel-backend custom
```

Commit message:

Add notes about remote files and adaptive scaling.

docs/source/coiled.md, after:

# coiled

```{caution}
Currently, the coiled backend can only be used if your workflow code is organized in a
package due to how pytask imports your code and dask serializes task functions
([issue](https://github.com/dask/distributed/issues/8607)).
```

[coiled](https://www.coiled.io/) is a product built on top of dask that eases the
deployment of your workflow to many cloud providers like AWS, GCP, and Azure.

Note that, coiled is a paid service. They offer a
[free monthly tier](https://www.coiled.io/pricing) where you only need to pay the costs
for your cloud provider and you can get started without a credit card.

They provide the following benefits which are especially helpful to people who are not
familiar with cloud providers or remote computing.

- coiled manages your resources by spawning workers if you need them and shutting them
  down if they are idle.
- [Synchronization](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/software/sync.html) of your local
  environment to remote workers.
- [Adaptive scaling](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/adaptive.html) if your workflow
  takes a long time to finish.

There are two ways how you can use coiled with pytask and pytask-parallel.

1. Run individual tasks in the cloud.
1. Run your whole workflow in the cloud.

Both approaches are explained below after the setup.

## Setup

Follow coiled's
[four step short process](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/setup/index.html) to set up
your local environment and configure your cloud provider.

## Running individual tasks

In most projects there are a just couple of tasks that require a lot of resources and
that you would like to run in a virtual machine in the cloud.

With coiled's
[serverless functions](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/usage/functions/index.html),
you can define the hardware and software environment for your task. Just decorate the
task function with a {func}`@coiled.function <coiled.function>` decorator.

```{literalinclude} ../../docs_src/coiled/coiled_functions.py
```

To execute the workflow, you need to turn on parallelization by requesting two or more
workers or specifying one of the parallel backends. Otherwise, the decorated task is run
locally.

```console
pytask -n 2
pytask --parallel-backend loky
```

When you apply the {func}`@task <pytask.task>` decorator to the task, make sure the
{func}`@coiled.function <coiled.function>` decorator is applied first, or is closer to
the function. Otherwise, it will be ignored. Add more arguments to the decorator to
configure the hardware and software environment.

```{literalinclude} ../../docs_src/coiled/coiled_functions_task.py
```

By default, {func}`@coiled.function <coiled.function>`
[scales adaptively](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/usage/functions/index.html#adaptive-scaling)
to the workload. It means that coiled infers from the number of submitted tasks and
previous runtimes, how many additional remote workers it should deploy to handle the
workload. It provides a convenient mechanism to scale without intervention. Also,
workers launched by {func}`@coiled.function <coiled.function>` will shutdown quicker
than a cluster.

```{seealso}
Serverless functions are more thoroughly explained in
[coiled's guide](https://docs.coiled.io/user_guide/usage/functions/index.html).
```

(coiled-clusters)=

## Running a cluster

It is also possible to launch a cluster and run each task in a worker provided by
coiled. Usually, it is not necessary and you are better off using coiled's serverless
functions.

If you want to launch a cluster managed by coiled, register a function that builds an
executor using {class}`coiled.Cluster`.

```python
import coiled
from pytask_parallel import ParallelBackend
from pytask_parallel import registry
from concurrent.futures import Executor


def _build_coiled_executor(n_workers: int) -> Executor:
    return coiled.Cluster(n_workers=n_workers).get_client().get_executor()


registry.register_parallel_backend(ParallelBackend.CUSTOM, _build_coiled_executor)
```

Then, execute your workflow with

```console
pytask --parallel-backend custom
```
